docs/development/meta-yaml.md, before:

(meta-yaml-spec)=

# The meta.yaml specification

Packages are defined by writing a `meta.yaml` file. The format of these files is
based on the `meta.yaml` files used to build [Conda
packages](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/resources/define-metadata.html),
though it is much more limited. The most important limitation is that Pyodide
assumes there will only be one version of a given library available, whereas
Conda allows the user to specify the versions of each package that they want to
install. Despite the limitations, it is recommended to use existing conda
package definitions as a starting point to create Pyodide packages. In general,
however, one should not expect Conda packages to "just work" with Pyodide, see
{pr}`795`

```{admonition} This is unstable
:class: warning

The Pyodide build system is under fairly active development (as of 2022/03/13).
The next couple of releases are likely to include breaking changes.
```

The supported keys in the `meta.yaml` file are described below.

## `package`

### `package/name`

The name of the package. It must match the name of the package used when
expanding the tarball, which is sometimes different from the name of the package
in the Python namespace when installed. It must also match the name of the
directory in which the `meta.yaml` file is placed. It can only contain
alphanumeric characters, `-`, and `_`.

### `package/version`

The version of the package.

### `package/top-level`

The list of top-level import name for the package.
This key is used in {js:func}`pyodide.loadPackagesFromImports`.
For example, the top-level import name for the `scikit-learn` is `sklearn`.
Some packages may have multiple top-level import names.
For instance, `setuptools` exposes `setuptools` and `pkg_resources`
as a top-level import names.

### `package/tag`

The list of tags of the package. This is meta information used to group
packages by functionality. Normally this is not needed.
The following tags are currently used in Pyodide:

- always: This package is always built.
- core: This package is used in the Pyodide core test suite.
- min-scipy-stack: This package is part of the minimal scipy stack.

## `source`

### `source/url`

The URL of the source tarball.

The tarball may be in any of the formats supported by Python's
{py:func}`shutil.unpack_archive`: `tar`, `gztar`, `bztar`, `xztar`, and `zip`.

### `source/extract_dir`

The top level directory name of the contents of the source tarball (i.e. once
you extract the tarball, all the contents are in the directory named
`source/extract_dir`). This defaults to the tarball name (sans extension).

### `source/path`

Alternatively to `source/url`, a relative or absolute path can be specified
as package source. This is useful for local testing or building packages which
are not available online in the required format.

If a path is specified, any provided checksums are ignored.

### `source/sha256`

The SHA256 checksum of the tarball. It is recommended to use SHA256 instead of MD5.
At most one checksum entry should be provided per package.

### `source/patches`

A list of patch files to apply after expanding the tarball. These are applied
using `patch -p1` from the root of the source tree.

### `source/extras`

Extra files to add to the source tree. This should be a list where each entry is
a pair of the form `(src, dst)`. The `src` path is relative to the directory in
which the `meta.yaml` file resides. The `dst` path is relative to the root of
source tree (the expanded tarball).

## `build`

### `build/cflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the compiler when building for WebAssembly.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/cxxflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the compiler when building C++ files for WebAssembly.
Note that both `cflags` and `cxxflags` will be used when compiling C++ files. A
common example would be to use `-std=c++11` for code that makes use of C++11
features.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/ldflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the linker when building for WebAssembly.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/exports`

Which symbols should be exported from the shared object files. Possible values
are:

- `pyinit`: The default. Only export Python module initialization symbols of the
  form `PyInit_some_module`.
- `requested`: Export the functions that are marked as exported in the object
  files. Switch to this if `pyinit` doesn't work. Useful for packages that use
  `ctypes` or `dlsym` to access symbols.
- `whole_archive`: Uses `-Wl,--whole-archive` to force inclusion of all symbols.
  Use this when neither `pyinit` nor `explicit` work.

### `build/backend-flags`

Extra flags to pass to the build backend (e.g., `setuptools`, `flit`, etc).

### `build/type`

Type of the package. Possible values are:

- package (default): A normal Python package, built to a wheel file.
- static_library: A static library.
- shared_library: A shared library.
- cpython_module: A CPython stdlib extension module.
  This is used for unvendoring CPython modules, and should not be used
  for other purposes.

If you are building ordinary Python package, you don't need to set this key.
But if you are building a static or shared library,
you need to set this to `static_library` or `shared_library` respectively.

Static and shared libraries are not Python packages themselves,
but are needed for other python packages. For libraries,
the script specified in the `build/script` section is run to
compile the library.

The difference between `static_library` and `shared_library` is that
`static_library` is statically linked into the other packages,
so it is required only in the build time, while `shared_library` is
dynamically linked, so it is required in the runtime. When building
a shared library, you should copy the built libraries into the `$DISTDIR`.
Files or folders in this folder will be packaged to make the Pyodide package.

See the [zlib
meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/zlib/meta.yaml)
for an example of a static library specification, and the [OpenBLAS
meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/openblas/meta.yaml)
for an example of a shared library specification.

### `build/script`

The script section is required for a library package (`build/library` set to
true). For a Python package this section is optional. If it is specified for a
Python package, the script section will be run before the build system runs
`setup.py`. This script is run by `bash` in the directory where the tarball was
extracted.

There are special environment variables defined:

- `$PKGDIR`: The directory in which the `meta.yaml` file resides.
- `$PKG_VESRION`: The version of the package
- `$PKG_BUILD_DIR`: The directory where the tarball was extracted.
- `$DISTDIR`: The directory where the built wheel or library should be placed.
  If you are building a shared library, you should copy the built libraries into this
  directory.

(These keys are not in the Conda spec).

### `build/cross-script`

This script will run _after_ `build/script`. The difference is that it runs with
the target environment variables and `sysconfigdata` and with the `pywasmcross`
compiler symlinks. Any changes to the environment will persist to the main build
step but will not be seen in the `build/post` step (or anything else done
outside of the cross build environment). The working directory for this script
is the source directory.

### `build/post`

Shell commands to run after building the package. This command runs
in the directory which contains the built wheel unpacked with
`python -m wheel unpack`. So it's possible to manually add, delete, change, move files etc.
See the [setuptools meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/
blob/main/packages/setuptools/meta.yaml)
for an example of the usage of this key.

### `build/unvendor-tests`

Whether to unvendor tests found in the installation folder to a separate package
`<package-name>-tests`. If this option is true and no tests are found, the test
package will not be created. Default: true.

### `build/vendor-sharedlib`

If set to true, shared libraries that are required by the package
will be vendored into the package after the build. This is similar to
what [`auditwheel repair`](https://github.com/pypa/auditwheel) does,
but it is done in a way that is compatible with Pyodide and Emscripten
dynamic linking. Default: false.

## `requirements`

### `requirements/run`

A list of required packages at runtime.

(Unlike conda, this only supports package names, not versions).

### `requirements/host`

A list of Pyodide packages that are required when building a package. It represents packages that need to be specific to the target platform.

For instance, when building `libxml`, `zlib` needs to be built for WASM first, and so it's a host dependency. This is unrelated to the fact that
the build system might already have `zlib` present.

### `requirements/executable`

A list of executables that are required when building a package.

Note that unlike conda, specifying executables in this key
doesn't actually install any of them. This key exists to
halt build earlier if required executables are not available.

## `test`

### `test/imports`

List of imports to test after the package is built.

## Supported Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be used in the scripts in the meta.yaml
files:

- PYODIDE_ROOT: The path to the base Pyodide directory
- PYMAJOR: Current major Python version
- PYMINOR: Current minor Python version
- PYMICRO: Current micro Python version
- SIDE_MODULE_CFLAGS: The standard CFLAGS for a side module. Use when compiling
  libraries or shared libraries.
- SIDE_MODULE_LDFLAGS: The standard LDFLAGS for a side module. Use when linking
  a shared library.
- NUMPY_LIB: Use `-L$NUMPY_LIB` as a ldflag when linking `-lnpymath` or
  `-lnpyrandom`.

Commit message:

Add a "rust" tag to all Rust packages, and add missing docs for supported tags (#5441)

docs/development/meta-yaml.md, after:

(meta-yaml-spec)=

# The meta.yaml specification

Packages are defined by writing a `meta.yaml` file. The format of these files is
based on the `meta.yaml` files used to build [Conda
packages](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/resources/define-metadata.html),
though it is much more limited. The most important limitation is that Pyodide
assumes there will only be one version of a given library available, whereas
Conda allows the user to specify the versions of each package that they want to
install. Despite the limitations, it is recommended to use existing conda
package definitions as a starting point to create Pyodide packages. In general,
however, one should not expect Conda packages to "just work" with Pyodide, see
{pr}`795`

```{admonition} This is unstable
:class: warning

The Pyodide build system is under fairly active development (as of 2022/03/13).
The next couple of releases are likely to include breaking changes.
```

The supported keys in the `meta.yaml` file are described below.

## `package`

### `package/name`

The name of the package. It must match the name of the package used when
expanding the tarball, which is sometimes different from the name of the package
in the Python namespace when installed. It must also match the name of the
directory in which the `meta.yaml` file is placed. It can only contain
alphanumeric characters, `-`, and `_`.

### `package/version`

The version of the package.

### `package/top-level`

The list of top-level import name for the package.
This key is used in {js:func}`pyodide.loadPackagesFromImports`.
For example, the top-level import name for the `scikit-learn` is `sklearn`.
Some packages may have multiple top-level import names.
For instance, `setuptools` exposes `setuptools` and `pkg_resources`
as a top-level import names.

### `package/tag`

The list of tags of the package. This is meta information used to group
packages by functionality. Normally this is not needed.
The following tags are currently used in Pyodide, for better CI grouping
or for testing purposes:

- always: This package is always built.
- core: This package is used in the Pyodide core test suite.
- min-scipy-stack: This package is part of the minimal Scientific Python stack.
- library: This package is a shared or static library.
- shared_library: This package is a shared library.
- static_library: This package is a static library.
- pyodide-test: This package is used to test the Pyodide build system.
- rust: This package requires a Rust toolchain to build.

## `source`

### `source/url`

The URL of the source tarball.

The tarball may be in any of the formats supported by Python's
{py:func}`shutil.unpack_archive`: `tar`, `gztar`, `bztar`, `xztar`, and `zip`.

### `source/extract_dir`

The top level directory name of the contents of the source tarball (i.e. once
you extract the tarball, all the contents are in the directory named
`source/extract_dir`). This defaults to the tarball name (sans extension).

### `source/path`

Alternatively to `source/url`, a relative or absolute path can be specified
as package source. This is useful for local testing or building packages which
are not available online in the required format.

If a path is specified, any provided checksums are ignored.

### `source/sha256`

The SHA256 checksum of the tarball. It is recommended to use SHA256 instead of MD5.
At most one checksum entry should be provided per package.

### `source/patches`

A list of patch files to apply after expanding the tarball. These are applied
using `patch -p1` from the root of the source tree.

### `source/extras`

Extra files to add to the source tree. This should be a list where each entry is
a pair of the form `(src, dst)`. The `src` path is relative to the directory in
which the `meta.yaml` file resides. The `dst` path is relative to the root of
source tree (the expanded tarball).

## `build`

### `build/cflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the compiler when building for WebAssembly.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/cxxflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the compiler when building C++ files for WebAssembly.
Note that both `cflags` and `cxxflags` will be used when compiling C++ files. A
common example would be to use `-std=c++11` for code that makes use of C++11
features.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/ldflags`

Extra arguments to pass to the linker when building for WebAssembly.

(This key is not in the Conda spec).

### `build/exports`

Which symbols should be exported from the shared object files. Possible values
are:

- `pyinit`: The default. Only export Python module initialization symbols of the
  form `PyInit_some_module`.
- `requested`: Export the functions that are marked as exported in the object
  files. Switch to this if `pyinit` doesn't work. Useful for packages that use
  `ctypes` or `dlsym` to access symbols.
- `whole_archive`: Uses `-Wl,--whole-archive` to force inclusion of all symbols.
  Use this when neither `pyinit` nor `explicit` work.

### `build/backend-flags`

Extra flags to pass to the build backend (e.g., `setuptools`, `flit`, etc).

### `build/type`

Type of the package. Possible values are:

- package (default): A normal Python package, built to a wheel file.
- static_library: A static library.
- shared_library: A shared library.
- cpython_module: A CPython stdlib extension module.
  This is used for unvendoring CPython modules, and should not be used
  for other purposes.

If you are building ordinary Python package, you don't need to set this key.
But if you are building a static or shared library,
you need to set this to `static_library` or `shared_library` respectively.

Static and shared libraries are not Python packages themselves,
but are needed for other python packages. For libraries,
the script specified in the `build/script` section is run to
compile the library.

The difference between `static_library` and `shared_library` is that
`static_library` is statically linked into the other packages,
so it is required only in the build time, while `shared_library` is
dynamically linked, so it is required in the runtime. When building
a shared library, you should copy the built libraries into the `$DISTDIR`.
Files or folders in this folder will be packaged to make the Pyodide package.

See the [zlib
meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/zlib/meta.yaml)
for an example of a static library specification, and the [OpenBLAS
meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/openblas/meta.yaml)
for an example of a shared library specification.

### `build/script`

The script section is required for a library package (`build/library` set to
true). For a Python package this section is optional. If it is specified for a
Python package, the script section will be run before the build system runs
`setup.py`. This script is run by `bash` in the directory where the tarball was
extracted.

There are special environment variables defined:

- `$PKGDIR`: The directory in which the `meta.yaml` file resides.
- `$PKG_VESRION`: The version of the package
- `$PKG_BUILD_DIR`: The directory where the tarball was extracted.
- `$DISTDIR`: The directory where the built wheel or library should be placed.
  If you are building a shared library, you should copy the built libraries into this
  directory.

(These keys are not in the Conda spec).

### `build/cross-script`

This script will run _after_ `build/script`. The difference is that it runs with
the target environment variables and `sysconfigdata` and with the `pywasmcross`
compiler symlinks. Any changes to the environment will persist to the main build
step but will not be seen in the `build/post` step (or anything else done
outside of the cross build environment). The working directory for this script
is the source directory.

### `build/post`

Shell commands to run after building the package. This command runs
in the directory which contains the built wheel unpacked with
`python -m wheel unpack`. So it's possible to manually add, delete, change, move files etc.
See the [setuptools meta.yaml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/
blob/main/packages/setuptools/meta.yaml)
for an example of the usage of this key.

### `build/unvendor-tests`

Whether to unvendor tests found in the installation folder to a separate package
`<package-name>-tests`. If this option is true and no tests are found, the test
package will not be created. Default: true.

### `build/vendor-sharedlib`

If set to true, shared libraries that are required by the package
will be vendored into the package after the build. This is similar to
what [`auditwheel repair`](https://github.com/pypa/auditwheel) does,
but it is done in a way that is compatible with Pyodide and Emscripten
dynamic linking. Default: false.

## `requirements`

### `requirements/run`

A list of required packages at runtime.

(Unlike conda, this only supports package names, not versions).

### `requirements/host`

A list of Pyodide packages that are required when building a package. It represents packages that need to be specific to the target platform.

For instance, when building `libxml`, `zlib` needs to be built for WASM first, and so it's a host dependency. This is unrelated to the fact that
the build system might already have `zlib` present.

### `requirements/executable`

A list of executables that are required when building a package.

Note that unlike conda, specifying executables in this key
doesn't actually install any of them. This key exists to
halt build earlier if required executables are not available.

## `test`

### `test/imports`

List of imports to test after the package is built.

## Supported Environment Variables

The following environment variables can be used in the scripts in the meta.yaml
files:

- PYODIDE_ROOT: The path to the base Pyodide directory
- PYMAJOR: Current major Python version
- PYMINOR: Current minor Python version
- PYMICRO: Current micro Python version
- SIDE_MODULE_CFLAGS: The standard CFLAGS for a side module. Use when compiling
  libraries or shared libraries.
- SIDE_MODULE_LDFLAGS: The standard LDFLAGS for a side module. Use when linking
  a shared library.
- NUMPY_LIB: Use `-L$NUMPY_LIB` as a ldflag when linking `-lnpymath` or
  `-lnpyrandom`.
