docs/development/new-packages.md, before:

(new-packages)=

# Creating a Pyodide package

It is recommended to look into how other similar packages are built in Pyodide.
If you encounter difficulties in building your package after trying the steps
listed here, open a [new Pyodide issue](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues).

## Determining if creating a Pyodide package is necessary

If you wish to use a package in Pyodide that is not already included in the
[`packages` folder](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/tree/main/packages), first you
need to determine whether it is necessary to package it for Pyodide. Ideally,
you should start this process with package dependencies.

Most pure Python packages can be installed directly from PyPI with
{func}`micropip.install` if they have a pure Python wheel. Check if this is the
case by trying `micropip.install("package-name")`.

If there is no wheel on PyPI, but you believe there is nothing preventing it (it
is a Python package without C extensions):

- you can create the wheel yourself by running
  ```sh
  python -m pip install build
  python -m build
  ```
  from within the package folder where the `setup.py` are located. See the
  [Python packaging guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/#generating-distribution-archives)
  for more details. Then upload the wheel file somewhere (not to PyPI) and
  install it with micropip via its URL.
- please open an issue in the package repository asking the authors to upload
  the wheel.

If however the package has C extensions or its code requires patching, then
continue to the next steps.

If you are on Windows, you will need to use WSL 2.

```{note}
To determine if a package has C extensions, check if its `setup.py` contains
any compilation commands.
```

## Building Python wheels (out of tree)

Starting with Pyodide 0.22.0, it is now possible to build Python wheels for Pyodide
for many packages separately from the Pyodide package tree. See {ref}`building-and-testing-packages-out-of-tree` for more details.

## Building a Python package (in tree)

This section documents how to add a new package to the Pyodide distribution.

As a starting point, you may want to look at the `meta.yaml` files for some
other Pyodide packages in the [`packages/`
folder](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/tree/main/packages).

### Prerequisites

First clone the Pyodide git repository:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide
cd pyodide
```

If you have trouble with missing dependencies (or are not running linux) you can
use the `pyodide-env` docker container with:

```bash
./run_docker
```

This will mount the current working directory as `/src` within the container so
if you build the package within the container the files created will persist in
the directory after you exit the container.

If you want to build the package, you will need to build Python which you can do
as follows:

```bash
make -C emsdk
make -C cpython
make pyodide_build
```

This also builds the appropriate version of Emscripten.

### Creating the `meta.yaml` file

To build a Python package in tree, you need to create a `meta.yaml` file that
defines a "recipe" which may include build commands and "patches" (source code
edits), amongst other things.

If your package is on PyPI, the easiest place to start is with the
`pyodide skeleton pypi` command. Run

```
pyodide skeleton pypi <package-name>
```

This will generate a `meta.yaml` file under `packages/<package-name>/` (see
{ref}`meta-yaml-spec`). The `pyodide` cli tool will populate the latest version,
the download link and the sha256 hash by querying PyPI.

It doesn't currently handle package dependencies, so you will need to specify
those yourself in the `requirements` section of the `meta.yaml` file.

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    # Dependencies that are needed to build the package
    - cffi
  run:
    # Dependencies that are needed to run the package
    - cffi
    - numpy
```

```{note}
To determine build and runtime dependencies, including for non Python
libraries, it is often useful to check if the package was already built on
[conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/) look at the corresponding `meta.yaml`
file. This can be done either by checking if the URL
`https://github.com/conda-forge/<package-name>-feedstock/blob/master/recipe/meta.yaml`
exists, or by searching the [conda-forge GitHub
org](https://github.com/conda-forge/) for the package name.

The Pyodide `meta.yaml` file format was inspired by the one in conda, however it is
not strictly compatible.
```

### Building the package

Once the `meta.yaml` file is ready, build the package with the following
command

```sh
pyodide build-recipes <package-name> --install
```

and see if there are any errors.

### Loading the package

If the build succeeds you can try to load the package:

1. Build pyodide via `PYODIDE_PACKAGES=tag:core make`.
2. Serve the dist directory with `python -m http.server --directory ./dist`.
   If you use docker, you can execute this either outside of the docker container or
   make sure to forward a port by setting the environment variable
   PYODIDE_SYSTEM_PORT or starting docker with `./run_docker -p <port>`.
3. Open `localhost:8000/console.html` and try to import the package.
4. You can test the package in the repl.

### Fixing build issues

If there are errors you might need to add a build script to set You can add
extra build commands to the `meta.yaml` like this:

```yaml
build:
  script: |
    wget https://example.com/file.tar.gz
    export MY_ENV_VARIABLE=FOO
```

You can also inject extra compile and link flags with the `cflags` and `ldflags`
keys. You can modify the wheel after it is built with the `post:` key.

If you need to patch the package's source to fix build issues, see the section
on Generating patches below.

### Writing tests for your package

The tests should go in one or more files like
`packages/<package-name>/test_xxx.py`. Most packages have one test file named
`test_<package-name>.py`. The tests should look like:

```py
from pytest_pyodide import run_in_pyodide

@run_in_pyodide(packages=["<package-name>"])
def test_mytestname(selenium):
  import <package-name>
  assert package.do_something() == 5
  # ...
```

If you want to run your package's full pytest test suite and your package
vendors tests you can do it like:

```py
from pytest_pyodide import run_in_pyodide

@run_in_pyodide(packages=["<package-name>-tests", "pytest"])
def test_mytestname(selenium):
  import pytest
  assert pytest.main(["--pyargs", "<package-name>", "-k", "some_filter", ...]) == 0
```

you can put whatever command line arguments you would pass to `pytest` as
separate entries in the list. For more info on `run_in_pyodide` see
[pytest-pyodide](https://github.com/pyodide/pytest-pyodide).

### Generating patches

If the package has a git repository, the easiest way to make a patch is usually:

1. Clone the git repository of the package. You might want to use the options
   `git clone --depth 1 --branch <version>`. Find the appropriate tag given the
   version of the package you are trying to modify.
2. Make a new branch with `git checkout -b pyodide-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.21.4`).
3. Make whatever changes you want. Commit them. Please split your changes up
   into focused commits. Write detailed commit messages! People will read them
   in the future, particularly when migrating patches or trying to decide if
   they are no longer needed. The first line of each commit message will also be
   used in the patch file name.
4. Use `git format-patch <version> -o <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/`
   to generate a patch file for your changes and store it directly into the
   patches folder.
5. You also need to add the patches to the `meta.yaml` file:

```yaml
source:
  url: https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/somehash/some-pkg-1.2.3.tar.gz
  sha256: somehash
  patches:
    - 0001-patch-some-thing.patch
    - 0002-patch-some-other-thing.patch
```

The following command will write out the properly formatted file list to use in
the `patches` key:

```sh
find patches/ -type f | sed 's/^/    - /g'
```

### Upgrading a package

To upgrade a package's version to the latest one available on PyPI, do

```
pyodide skeleton pypi <package-name> --update
```

Because this does not handle package dependencies, you have to manually check
whether the `requirements` section of the `meta.yaml` file needs to be updated
for updated dependencies.

Upgrading a package's version may lead to new build issues that need to be resolved
(see above) and any patches need to be checked and potentially migrated (see below).

### Migrating Patches

When you want to upgrade the version of a package, you will need to migrate the
patches. To do this:

1. Clone the git repository of the package. You might want to use the options
   `git clone --depth 1 --branch <version-tag>`.
2. Make a new branch with `git checkout -b pyodide-old-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.21.4`).
3. Apply the current patches with `git am <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/*`.
4. Make a new branch `git checkout -b pyodide-new-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.22.0`)
5. Rebase the patches with `git rebase old-version --onto new-version` (e.g.,
   `git rebase pyodide-1.21.4 --onto pyodide-1.22.0`). Resolve any rebase
   conflicts. If a patch has been upstreamed, you can drop it with `git rebase --skip`.
6. Remove old patches with `rm <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/*`.
7. Use `git format-patch <version-tag> -o <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/`
   to generate new patch files.

### Upstream your patches!

Please create PRs or issues to discuss with the package maintainers to try to
find ways to include your patches into the package. Many package maintainers are
very receptive to including Pyodide-related patches and they reduce future
maintenance work for us.

### The package build pipeline

Pyodide includes a toolchain to add new third-party Python libraries to the
build. We automate the following steps:

- If source is a url (not in-tree):
  - Download a source archive or a pure python wheel (usually from PyPI)
  - Confirm integrity of the package by comparing it to a checksum
  - If building from source (not from a wheel):
    - Apply patches, if any, to the source distribution
    - Add extra files, if any, to the source distribution
- If the source is not a wheel (building from a source archive or an in-tree
  source):
  - Run `build/script` if present
  - Modify the `PATH` to point to wrappers for `gfortran`, `gcc`, `g++`, `ar`,
    and `ld` that preempt compiler calls, rewrite the arguments, and pass them
    to the appropriate emscripten compiler tools.
  - Using `pypa/build`:
    - Create an isolated build environment. Install symbolic links from this
      isolated environment to "host" copies of certain unisolated packages.
    - Install the build dependencies requested in the package `build-requires`.
      (We ignore all version constraints on the unisolated packages, but version
      constraints on other packages are respected.
    - Run the {pep}`517` build backend associated to the project to generate a wheel.
- Unpack the wheel with `python -m wheel unpack`.
- Run the `build/post` script in the unpacked wheel directory if it's present.
- Unvendor unit tests included in the installation folder to a separate zip file
  `<package name>-tests.zip`
- Repack the wheel with `python -m wheel pack`

Lastly, a `pyodide-lock.json` file is created containing the dependency tree of all
packages, so {js:func}`pyodide.loadPackage` can load a package's dependencies
automatically.

### Partial Rebuilds

By default, each time you run `pyodide build-recipes`, it will delete the entire
source directory and replace it with a fresh copy from the download url. This is
to ensure build repeatability. For debugging purposes, this is likely to be
undesirable. If you want to try out a modified source tree, you can pass the
flag `--continue` and `build-recipes` will try to build from the existing source
tree. This can cause various issues, but if it works it is much more convenient.

Using the `--continue` flag, you can modify the sources in tree to fix the
build, then when it works, copy the modified sources into your checked out copy
of the package source repository and use `git format-patch` to generate the
patch.

### C library dependencies

Some Python packages depend on certain C libraries, e.g. `lxml` depends on
`libxml`.

To package a C library, create a directory in `packages/` for the C library. In
the directory, you should write `meta.yaml` that specifies metadata about the
library. See {ref}`meta-yaml-spec` for more details.

The minimal example of `meta.yaml` for a C library is:

```yaml
package:
  name: <name>
  version: <version>

source:
  url: <url>
  sha256: <sha256>

requirements:
  run:
    - <requirement>

build:
  type: static_library
  script: |
    emconfigure ./configure
    emmake make -j ${PYODIDE_JOBS:-3}
```

You can use the `meta.yaml` of other C libraries such as
[libxml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/libxml/meta.yaml)
as a starting point.

After packaging a C library, it can be added as a dependency of a Python package
like a normal dependency. See `lxml` and `libxml` for an example (and also
`scipy` and `OpenBLAS`).

_Remark:_ Certain C libraries come as emscripten ports, and do not have to be
built manually. They can be used by adding e.g. `-s USE_ZLIB` in the `cflags` of
the Python package. See e.g. `matplotlib` for an example. [The full list of
libraries with Emscripten ports is
here.](https://github.com/orgs/emscripten-ports/repositories?type=all)

### Structure of a Pyodide package

Pyodide is obtained by compiling CPython into WebAssembly. As such, it loads
packages the same way as CPython --- it looks for relevant files `.py` and `.so`
files in the directories in `sys.path`. When installing a package, our job is to
install our `.py` and `.so` files in the right location in emscripten's virtual
filesystem.

Wheels are just zip archives, and to install them we unzip them into the
`site-packages` directory. If there are any `.so` files, we also need to load
them at install time: WebAssembly must be loaded asynchronously, but Python
imports are synchronous so it is impossible to load `.so` files lazily.

```{eval-rst}
.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   meta-yaml.md
```

### Rust/PyO3 Packages

We currently build `cryptography` which is a Rust extension built with PyO3 and
`setuptools-rust`. It should be reasonably easy to build other Rust extensions.
If you want to build a package with Rust extension, you will need Rust >= 1.41,
and you need to set the rustup toolchain to `nightly`, and the target to
`wasm32-unknown-emscripten` in the build script
[as shown here](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/cryptography/meta.yaml),
but other than that there may be no other issues if you are lucky.

As mentioned [here](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues/2706#issuecomment-1154655224),
by default certain wasm-related `RUSTFLAGS` are set during `build.script`
and can be removed with `export RUSTFLAGS=""`.

If your project builds using maturin, you need to use maturin 0.14.14 or later. It is pretty easy to patch an existing project (see `projects/fastparquet/meta.yaml` for an example)

Commit message:

docs: add warning on multi-threading and a workaround

docs/development/new-packages.md, after:

(new-packages)=

# Creating a Pyodide package

It is recommended to look into how other similar packages are built in Pyodide.
If you encounter difficulties in building your package after trying the steps
listed here, open a [new Pyodide issue](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues).

## Determining if creating a Pyodide package is necessary

If you wish to use a package in Pyodide that is not already included in the
[`packages` folder](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/tree/main/packages), first you
need to determine whether it is necessary to package it for Pyodide. Ideally,
you should start this process with package dependencies.

Most pure Python packages can be installed directly from PyPI with
{func}`micropip.install` if they have a pure Python wheel. Check if this is the
case by trying `micropip.install("package-name")`.

Due to [current limitations of webassemly](https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/wasm-constraints.html),
packages that make heavy use of multi-threading and multi-processing **may not** work
without explicit support from maintainers. A workaround could be to avoid creating multiple
threads when on wasm using a check like:

```py
is_wasm = sys.platform == "emscripten" or platform.machine() in ["wasm32", "wasm64"]

if is_wasm:
  # set n_threads = 1
```

If there is no wheel on PyPI, but you believe there is nothing preventing it (it
is a Python package without C extensions):

- you can create the wheel yourself by running
  ```sh
  python -m pip install build
  python -m build
  ```
  from within the package folder where the `setup.py` are located. See the
  [Python packaging guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/#generating-distribution-archives)
  for more details. Then upload the wheel file somewhere (not to PyPI) and
  install it with micropip via its URL.
- please open an issue in the package repository asking the authors to upload
  the wheel.

If however the package has C extensions or its code requires patching, then
continue to the next steps.

If you are on Windows, you will need to use WSL 2.

```{note}
To determine if a package has C extensions, check if its `setup.py` contains
any compilation commands.
```

## Building Python wheels (out of tree)

Starting with Pyodide 0.22.0, it is now possible to build Python wheels for Pyodide
for many packages separately from the Pyodide package tree. See {ref}`building-and-testing-packages-out-of-tree` for more details.

## Building a Python package (in tree)

This section documents how to add a new package to the Pyodide distribution.

As a starting point, you may want to look at the `meta.yaml` files for some
other Pyodide packages in the [`packages/`
folder](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/tree/main/packages).

### Prerequisites

First clone the Pyodide git repository:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide
cd pyodide
```

If you have trouble with missing dependencies (or are not running linux) you can
use the `pyodide-env` docker container with:

```bash
./run_docker
```

This will mount the current working directory as `/src` within the container so
if you build the package within the container the files created will persist in
the directory after you exit the container.

If you want to build the package, you will need to build Python which you can do
as follows:

```bash
make -C emsdk
make -C cpython
make pyodide_build
```

This also builds the appropriate version of Emscripten.

### Creating the `meta.yaml` file

To build a Python package in tree, you need to create a `meta.yaml` file that
defines a "recipe" which may include build commands and "patches" (source code
edits), amongst other things.

If your package is on PyPI, the easiest place to start is with the
`pyodide skeleton pypi` command. Run

```
pyodide skeleton pypi <package-name>
```

This will generate a `meta.yaml` file under `packages/<package-name>/` (see
{ref}`meta-yaml-spec`). The `pyodide` cli tool will populate the latest version,
the download link and the sha256 hash by querying PyPI.

It doesn't currently handle package dependencies, so you will need to specify
those yourself in the `requirements` section of the `meta.yaml` file.

```yaml
requirements:
  host:
    # Dependencies that are needed to build the package
    - cffi
  run:
    # Dependencies that are needed to run the package
    - cffi
    - numpy
```

```{note}
To determine build and runtime dependencies, including for non Python
libraries, it is often useful to check if the package was already built on
[conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/) look at the corresponding `meta.yaml`
file. This can be done either by checking if the URL
`https://github.com/conda-forge/<package-name>-feedstock/blob/master/recipe/meta.yaml`
exists, or by searching the [conda-forge GitHub
org](https://github.com/conda-forge/) for the package name.

The Pyodide `meta.yaml` file format was inspired by the one in conda, however it is
not strictly compatible.
```

### Building the package

Once the `meta.yaml` file is ready, build the package with the following
command

```sh
pyodide build-recipes <package-name> --install
```

and see if there are any errors.

### Loading the package

If the build succeeds you can try to load the package:

1. Build pyodide via `PYODIDE_PACKAGES=tag:core make`.
2. Serve the dist directory with `python -m http.server --directory ./dist`.
   If you use docker, you can execute this either outside of the docker container or
   make sure to forward a port by setting the environment variable
   PYODIDE_SYSTEM_PORT or starting docker with `./run_docker -p <port>`.
3. Open `localhost:8000/console.html` and try to import the package.
4. You can test the package in the repl.

### Fixing build issues

If there are errors you might need to add a build script to set You can add
extra build commands to the `meta.yaml` like this:

```yaml
build:
  script: |
    wget https://example.com/file.tar.gz
    export MY_ENV_VARIABLE=FOO
```

You can also inject extra compile and link flags with the `cflags` and `ldflags`
keys. You can modify the wheel after it is built with the `post:` key.

If you need to patch the package's source to fix build issues, see the section
on Generating patches below.

### Writing tests for your package

The tests should go in one or more files like
`packages/<package-name>/test_xxx.py`. Most packages have one test file named
`test_<package-name>.py`. The tests should look like:

```py
from pytest_pyodide import run_in_pyodide

@run_in_pyodide(packages=["<package-name>"])
def test_mytestname(selenium):
  import <package-name>
  assert package.do_something() == 5
  # ...
```

If you want to run your package's full pytest test suite and your package
vendors tests you can do it like:

```py
from pytest_pyodide import run_in_pyodide

@run_in_pyodide(packages=["<package-name>-tests", "pytest"])
def test_mytestname(selenium):
  import pytest
  assert pytest.main(["--pyargs", "<package-name>", "-k", "some_filter", ...]) == 0
```

you can put whatever command line arguments you would pass to `pytest` as
separate entries in the list. For more info on `run_in_pyodide` see
[pytest-pyodide](https://github.com/pyodide/pytest-pyodide).

### Generating patches

If the package has a git repository, the easiest way to make a patch is usually:

1. Clone the git repository of the package. You might want to use the options
   `git clone --depth 1 --branch <version>`. Find the appropriate tag given the
   version of the package you are trying to modify.
2. Make a new branch with `git checkout -b pyodide-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.21.4`).
3. Make whatever changes you want. Commit them. Please split your changes up
   into focused commits. Write detailed commit messages! People will read them
   in the future, particularly when migrating patches or trying to decide if
   they are no longer needed. The first line of each commit message will also be
   used in the patch file name.
4. Use `git format-patch <version> -o <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/`
   to generate a patch file for your changes and store it directly into the
   patches folder.
5. You also need to add the patches to the `meta.yaml` file:

```yaml
source:
  url: https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/somehash/some-pkg-1.2.3.tar.gz
  sha256: somehash
  patches:
    - 0001-patch-some-thing.patch
    - 0002-patch-some-other-thing.patch
```

The following command will write out the properly formatted file list to use in
the `patches` key:

```sh
find patches/ -type f | sed 's/^/    - /g'
```

### Upgrading a package

To upgrade a package's version to the latest one available on PyPI, do

```
pyodide skeleton pypi <package-name> --update
```

Because this does not handle package dependencies, you have to manually check
whether the `requirements` section of the `meta.yaml` file needs to be updated
for updated dependencies.

Upgrading a package's version may lead to new build issues that need to be resolved
(see above) and any patches need to be checked and potentially migrated (see below).

### Migrating Patches

When you want to upgrade the version of a package, you will need to migrate the
patches. To do this:

1. Clone the git repository of the package. You might want to use the options
   `git clone --depth 1 --branch <version-tag>`.
2. Make a new branch with `git checkout -b pyodide-old-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.21.4`).
3. Apply the current patches with `git am <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/*`.
4. Make a new branch `git checkout -b pyodide-new-version` (e.g.,
   `pyodide-1.22.0`)
5. Rebase the patches with `git rebase old-version --onto new-version` (e.g.,
   `git rebase pyodide-1.21.4 --onto pyodide-1.22.0`). Resolve any rebase
   conflicts. If a patch has been upstreamed, you can drop it with `git rebase --skip`.
6. Remove old patches with `rm <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/*`.
7. Use `git format-patch <version-tag> -o <pyodide-root>/packages/<package-name>/patches/`
   to generate new patch files.

### Upstream your patches!

Please create PRs or issues to discuss with the package maintainers to try to
find ways to include your patches into the package. Many package maintainers are
very receptive to including Pyodide-related patches and they reduce future
maintenance work for us.

### The package build pipeline

Pyodide includes a toolchain to add new third-party Python libraries to the
build. We automate the following steps:

- If source is a url (not in-tree):
  - Download a source archive or a pure python wheel (usually from PyPI)
  - Confirm integrity of the package by comparing it to a checksum
  - If building from source (not from a wheel):
    - Apply patches, if any, to the source distribution
    - Add extra files, if any, to the source distribution
- If the source is not a wheel (building from a source archive or an in-tree
  source):
  - Run `build/script` if present
  - Modify the `PATH` to point to wrappers for `gfortran`, `gcc`, `g++`, `ar`,
    and `ld` that preempt compiler calls, rewrite the arguments, and pass them
    to the appropriate emscripten compiler tools.
  - Using `pypa/build`:
    - Create an isolated build environment. Install symbolic links from this
      isolated environment to "host" copies of certain unisolated packages.
    - Install the build dependencies requested in the package `build-requires`.
      (We ignore all version constraints on the unisolated packages, but version
      constraints on other packages are respected.
    - Run the {pep}`517` build backend associated to the project to generate a wheel.
- Unpack the wheel with `python -m wheel unpack`.
- Run the `build/post` script in the unpacked wheel directory if it's present.
- Unvendor unit tests included in the installation folder to a separate zip file
  `<package name>-tests.zip`
- Repack the wheel with `python -m wheel pack`

Lastly, a `pyodide-lock.json` file is created containing the dependency tree of all
packages, so {js:func}`pyodide.loadPackage` can load a package's dependencies
automatically.

### Partial Rebuilds

By default, each time you run `pyodide build-recipes`, it will delete the entire
source directory and replace it with a fresh copy from the download url. This is
to ensure build repeatability. For debugging purposes, this is likely to be
undesirable. If you want to try out a modified source tree, you can pass the
flag `--continue` and `build-recipes` will try to build from the existing source
tree. This can cause various issues, but if it works it is much more convenient.

Using the `--continue` flag, you can modify the sources in tree to fix the
build, then when it works, copy the modified sources into your checked out copy
of the package source repository and use `git format-patch` to generate the
patch.

### C library dependencies

Some Python packages depend on certain C libraries, e.g. `lxml` depends on
`libxml`.

To package a C library, create a directory in `packages/` for the C library. In
the directory, you should write `meta.yaml` that specifies metadata about the
library. See {ref}`meta-yaml-spec` for more details.

The minimal example of `meta.yaml` for a C library is:

```yaml
package:
  name: <name>
  version: <version>

source:
  url: <url>
  sha256: <sha256>

requirements:
  run:
    - <requirement>

build:
  type: static_library
  script: |
    emconfigure ./configure
    emmake make -j ${PYODIDE_JOBS:-3}
```

You can use the `meta.yaml` of other C libraries such as
[libxml](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/libxml/meta.yaml)
as a starting point.

After packaging a C library, it can be added as a dependency of a Python package
like a normal dependency. See `lxml` and `libxml` for an example (and also
`scipy` and `OpenBLAS`).

_Remark:_ Certain C libraries come as emscripten ports, and do not have to be
built manually. They can be used by adding e.g. `-s USE_ZLIB` in the `cflags` of
the Python package. See e.g. `matplotlib` for an example. [The full list of
libraries with Emscripten ports is
here.](https://github.com/orgs/emscripten-ports/repositories?type=all)

### Structure of a Pyodide package

Pyodide is obtained by compiling CPython into WebAssembly. As such, it loads
packages the same way as CPython --- it looks for relevant files `.py` and `.so`
files in the directories in `sys.path`. When installing a package, our job is to
install our `.py` and `.so` files in the right location in emscripten's virtual
filesystem.

Wheels are just zip archives, and to install them we unzip them into the
`site-packages` directory. If there are any `.so` files, we also need to load
them at install time: WebAssembly must be loaded asynchronously, but Python
imports are synchronous so it is impossible to load `.so` files lazily.

```{eval-rst}
.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   meta-yaml.md
```

### Rust/PyO3 Packages

We currently build `cryptography` which is a Rust extension built with PyO3 and
`setuptools-rust`. It should be reasonably easy to build other Rust extensions.
If you want to build a package with Rust extension, you will need Rust >= 1.41,
and you need to set the rustup toolchain to `nightly`, and the target to
`wasm32-unknown-emscripten` in the build script
[as shown here](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/blob/main/packages/cryptography/meta.yaml),
but other than that there may be no other issues if you are lucky.

As mentioned [here](https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/issues/2706#issuecomment-1154655224),
by default certain wasm-related `RUSTFLAGS` are set during `build.script`
and can be removed with `export RUSTFLAGS=""`.

If your project builds using maturin, you need to use maturin 0.14.14 or later. It is pretty easy to patch an existing project (see `projects/fastparquet/meta.yaml` for an example)
