docs/usage/api/js-api.md, before:

# JavaScript API

Backward compatibility of the API is not guaranteed at this point.

## Globals

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: globalThis

.. js:automodule:: globalThis
```

(js-api-pyodide)=

## pyodide

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide

.. js:automodule:: pyodide
```

(js-api-pyodide-ffi)=

## pyodide.ffi

Foreign function interface classes. Can be used for typescript type annotations
or at runtime for `instanceof` checks.

To import types from `pyodide.ffi` you can use for example

```ts
import type { PyProxy } from "pyodide/ffi";
```

If you want to do an instance check, you'll need to access the type via the
Pyodide API returned from {js:func}`~globalThis.loadPyodide`:

```js
const pyodide = loadPyodide();
const result = pyodide.runPython("... code here");
if (result instanceof pyodide.ffi.PyProxy) {
  // Do something
}
```

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide.ffi

.. js:automodule:: pyodide.ffi
```

(js-api-pyodide-canvas)=

## pyodide.canvas

This provides APIs to set a canvas for rendering graphics.

For example, you need to set a canvas if you want to use the SDL library. See
{ref}`using-sdl` for more information.

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide.canvas

.. js:automodule:: pyodide.canvas
```

Commit message:

DOCS Improvements to JS API docs
I renamed the `Globals` section to `Top Level Exports` and added a
comment explaining that `loadPyodide()` is placed on `globalThis`
by `pyodide.js` and the other exports are left inaccessible.

To refer to objects in this section, it's now necessary to say
`exports.blah` instead of `globalThis.blah`. I also suppressed the
`globalThis.` prefix that used to appear on objects in this section.
I also suppressed the prefixes for interfaces and type aliases because
they cannot be accessed like that.

I also added `PyodideAPI` as a type export in `pyodide.d.ts` and added
a documentation entry for it. I moved `TypedArray` to `pyodide.ffi` in
the docs (the types say that `import {TypedArray} from "pyodide";` is
deprecated and it should be imported from `pyodide.ffi` instead).

docs/usage/api/js-api.md, after:

# JavaScript API

## Top Level Exports

These can be imported via `import { name } from "pyodide.mjs";`. If you can't
use the es6 module, `pyodide.js` places {js:func}`~exports.loadPyodide` on
{js:data}`globalThis`. The other top level exports cannot be accessed from
`pyodide.js`.

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: exports

.. js:automodule:: exports
```

(js-api-pyodide)=

## pyodide

This section documents the `pyodide` API object, which is returned by
{js:func}`loadPyodide`.

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide

.. js:automodule:: pyodide
```

(js-api-pyodide-ffi)=

## pyodide.ffi

Foreign function interface classes. Can be used for typescript type annotations
or at runtime for `instanceof` checks.

To import types from `pyodide.ffi` you can use for example

```ts
import type { PyProxy } from "pyodide/ffi";
```

If you want to do an instance check, you'll need to access the type via the
Pyodide API returned from {js:func}`~exports.loadPyodide`:

```js
const pyodide = loadPyodide();
const result = pyodide.runPython("... code here");
if (result instanceof pyodide.ffi.PyProxy) {
  // Do something
}
```

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide.ffi

.. js:automodule:: pyodide.ffi
```

(js-api-pyodide-canvas)=

## pyodide.canvas

This provides APIs to set a canvas for rendering graphics.

For example, you need to set a canvas if you want to use the SDL library. See
{ref}`using-sdl` for more information.

```{eval-rst}
.. js:autosummary:: pyodide.canvas

.. js:automodule:: pyodide.canvas
```
