docs/index.rst, before:

Pyodide
=======


Pyodide is a Python distribution for the browser and Node.js based on WebAssembly.

What is Pyodide?
----------------

Pyodide is a port of CPython to WebAssembly/`Emscripten <https://emscripten.org/>`_.

Pyodide makes it possible to install and run Python packages in the browser with
`micropip <https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/api/micropip-api.html>`_. Any
pure Python package with a wheel available on PyPi is supported. Many packages
with C, C++, and Rust extensions have also been ported for use with Pyodide.
These include many general-purpose packages such as regex, PyYAML, and
cryptography, and scientific Python packages including NumPy, pandas, SciPy,
Matplotlib, and scikit-learn.

Pyodide comes with a robust Javascript ⟺ Python foreign function interface so
that you can freely mix these two languages in your code with minimal
friction. This includes full support for error handling (throw an error in one
language, catch it in the other), async/await, and much more.

When used inside a browser, Python has full access to the Web APIs.

Try Pyodide
-----------

Try Pyodide in a
`REPL <./console.html>`_ directly in
your browser (no installation needed).


Table of contents
-----------------

Using Pyodide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   usage/quickstart.md
   usage/downloading-and-deploying.md
   usage/index.md
   usage/accessing-files.md
   usage/loading-packages.md
   usage/building-and-testing-packages.md
   usage/wasm-constraints.md
   usage/type-conversions.md
   usage/keyboard-interrupts.md
   usage/streams.md
   usage/api-reference.md
   usage/faq.md
   usage/examples.md

Development
^^^^^^^^^^^

The Development section helps Pyodide contributors to find information about the
development process including making packages to support third party libraries.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Development

   development/new-packages.md
   development/building-from-sources.md
   development/testing.md
   development/debugging.md
   development/contributing.md



Project
^^^^^^^

The Project section gives additional information about the project's
organization and latest releases.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Project

   project/about.md
   project/roadmap.md
   project/code-of-conduct.md
   project/governance.md
   project/changelog.md
   project/related-projects.md


Communication
-------------

- Blog: `blog.pyodide.org <https://blog.pyodide.org/>`_
- Mailing list: `mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/pyodide.python.org/ <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/pyodide.python.org/>`_
- Gitter: `gitter.im/pyodide/community <https://gitter.im/pyodide/community>`_
- Twitter: `twitter.com/pyodide <https://twitter.com/pyodide>`_
- Stack Overflow: `stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pyodide <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pyodide>`_

Commit message:

DOCS Improve the `Getting Stated` section of the readme
We didn't suggest anything for package maintainers, for people who want
to use bundlers, or for people who want to use it in node. This provides
some more suggestions for first links for people to look at depending on
their needs.

docs/index.rst, after:

Pyodide
=======


Pyodide is a Python distribution for the browser and Node.js based on WebAssembly.

What is Pyodide?
----------------

Pyodide is a port of CPython to WebAssembly/`Emscripten <https://emscripten.org/>`_.

Pyodide makes it possible to install and run Python packages in the browser with
`micropip <https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/api/micropip-api.html>`_. Any
pure Python package with a wheel available on PyPi is supported. Many packages
with C, C++, and Rust extensions have also been ported for use with Pyodide.
These include many general-purpose packages such as regex, PyYAML, and
cryptography, and scientific Python packages including NumPy, pandas, SciPy,
Matplotlib, and scikit-learn.

Pyodide comes with a robust Javascript ⟺ Python foreign function interface so
that you can freely mix these two languages in your code with minimal
friction. This includes full support for error handling (throw an error in one
language, catch it in the other), async/await, and much more.

When used inside a browser, Python has full access to the Web APIs.

Try Pyodide
-----------

Try Pyodide in a
`REPL <./console.html>`_ directly in
your browser (no installation needed).

Where should I go?
------------------

- If you wish to use a hosted distribution of Pyodide: see the :ref:`quickstart`
  documentation.
- If you wish to host Pyodide yourself, you can download Pyodide from the `releases
  page <https://github.com/pyodide/pyodide/releases/>`_ and serve it with a web server.
- If you wish to use Pyodide with a bundler, see the documentation on
  :ref:`working-with-bundlers`.
- If you are a Python package maintainer, see the documentation
  :ref:`building-and-testing-packages-out-of-tree`.
- If you want to add a package to the Pyodide distribution, see the documentation on :ref:`new-packages`.
- If you wish to experiment or contribute back to the Pyodide runtime, see the documentation on
  :ref:`building_from_source`.



Table of contents
-----------------

Using Pyodide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   usage/quickstart.md
   usage/downloading-and-deploying.md
   usage/index.md
   usage/accessing-files.md
   usage/loading-packages.md
   usage/building-and-testing-packages.md
   usage/wasm-constraints.md
   usage/type-conversions.md
   usage/keyboard-interrupts.md
   usage/streams.md
   usage/api-reference.md
   usage/faq.md
   usage/examples.md

Development
^^^^^^^^^^^

The Development section helps Pyodide contributors to find information about the
development process including making packages to support third party libraries.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Development

   development/new-packages.md
   development/building-from-sources.md
   development/testing.md
   development/debugging.md
   development/contributing.md



Project
^^^^^^^

The Project section gives additional information about the project's
organization and latest releases.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Project

   project/about.md
   project/roadmap.md
   project/code-of-conduct.md
   project/governance.md
   project/changelog.md
   project/related-projects.md


Communication
-------------

- Blog: `blog.pyodide.org <https://blog.pyodide.org/>`_
- Mailing list: `mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/pyodide.python.org/ <https://mail.python.org/mailman3/lists/pyodide.python.org/>`_
- Gitter: `gitter.im/pyodide/community <https://gitter.im/pyodide/community>`_
- Twitter: `twitter.com/pyodide <https://twitter.com/pyodide>`_
- Stack Overflow: `stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pyodide <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/pyodide>`_
